William Shakespeare	I grant thou wert not married to my Muse,   And therefore mayst without attaint o'erlook   The dedicated words which writers use   Of their fair subject, blessing every book.   Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,   Finding thy worth a limit past my praise;   And therefore art enforced to seek anew   Some fresher stamp of the time-bettering days.   And do so, love; yet when they have devis'd,   What strained touches rhetoric can lend,   Thou truly fair, wert truly sympathiz'd   In true plain words, by thy true-telling friend;     And their gross painting might be better us'd     Where cheeks need blood; in thee it is abus'd.    LXXXIII    I never saw that you did painting need,   And therefore to your fair no painting set;   I found, or thought I found, you did exceed   That barren tender of a poet's debt:   And therefore have I slept in your report,   That you yourself, being extant, well might show   How far a modern quill doth come too short,   Speaking of worth, what worth in you doth grow.   This silence for my sin you did impute,   Which shall be most my glory being dumb;   For I impair not beauty being mute,   When others would give life, and bring a tomb.     There lives more life in one of your fair eyes     Than both your poets can in praise devise.    LXXXIV    Who is it that says most, which can say more,   Than this rich praise,--that you alone, are you?   In whose confine immured is the store   Which should example where your equal grew.   Lean penury within that pen doth dwell   That to his subject lends not some small glory;   But he that writes of you, if he can tell   That you are you, so dignifies his story,   Let him but copy what in you is writ,   Not making worse what nature made so clear,   And such a counterpart shall fame his wit,   Making his style admired every where.     You to your beauteous blessings add a curse,     Being fond on praise, which makes your praises worse.    LXXXV    My tongue-tied Muse in manners holds her still,   While comments of your praise richly compil'd,   Reserve their character with golden quill,   And precious phrase by all the Muses fil'd.   I think good thoughts, whilst others write good words,   And like unlettered clerk still cry 'Amen'   To every hymn that able spirit affords,   In polish'd form of well-refined pen.   Hearing you praised, I say ''tis so, 'tis true,'   And to the most of praise add something more;   But that is in my thought, whose love to you,   Though words come hindmost, holds his rank before.     Then others, for the breath of words respect,     Me for my dumb thoughts, speaking in effect.